# Python-movieticket-app 
When starting to develop this program I wanted to make sure that the user was given all of the information for the ticket prices upfront. I decided to make the ticket price for children $8 and the senior ticket price $10. The normal ticket price for those who do not qualify for either discount is $15. A message explaining the surcharge for 3D movies will then be presented which is $3. In my code after the print messages, I went ahead and stored the ticket price for the three age groups in three separate variables along with a separate variable for the surcharge. After all of the information is displayed to the user and all the variables are set I started to program the logic.

 First I set it up to prompt the user for their age and then to answer Yes or No about if the movie was 3D. The user-entered value for age is stored into the variable "age". Now when the user types, yes or no this answer is also stored into the variable surcharge. However, when I started running my program for testing I accidentally typed “yes” instead of “Yes”. This lead me to do a quick google search on how to make the input value for this variable not case sensitive in Python. Proceeding on with the logic I made an if and elif statement for each age group. The first one will check if the user's age is less than or equal to 12 for the children's discount. The second one checks for the value to be greater than 12 and less than 65 for the normal ticket price. Finally, the third one will check if the value is greater than or equal to 65 for seniors discount. I then added “and” that also checks if the surcharge was entered “yes”. Using the elif statement I can check if the entered value was no for all three. This is where I added the .lower() to surcharge for making the user's value not case-sensitive. Depending on what the answer for the surcharge input was the program will return either the normal ticket price plus the surcharge for a 3D movie or just the normal ticket price.
